Initial thoughts...

Here I am going to identify a problem I believe I can solve with an application and come up with some initial ideas before communicating with the customer to refine those ideas.



What problem are we trying to solve?
---

Employees may have valuable feedback they want to share that can improve the company.
They may not have the opportunity to do so because of not being in meetings, being shy, wishing to remain anonymous etc.
The employer may find it hard to gauge employee moral and therefore get the most out of their employees.
The employer lacks data to make informed decisions or to track how changes in policy are affecting the staff.

---
How can this application solve these problems?
---

Allow all employees to easily give feedback/suggestions to the managers, anonymously or otherwise.
Track employee satisfaction over time.
Generate reports for managers.
Allow managers to post specific questions to employees.

---
What functionality will the app need?
---

Managers...

LOGIN AND ACCOUNT
can create an account
can retrieve lost passwords
can change their passwords

FEEDBACK
can create new feedback questions
can create departments
can assign certain questions to certain departments

REPORTS
can view feedback in various formats
graphs
tables

Employees...
can view and fill in feedback forms

---
What are some other random ideas?
---
Nominate an employee who they think is doing well.
This could be displayed to employee.
Employee praise from managers?
Suggestions for improvements to the company.
Group feedback by department.
Could management reply to feedback even if it was posted anonymously?
App should contain a short guide to writing questions.
Could you create a monthly survey?
Allow employees to create a survey?
View feedback by department, question, good, bad, neutral.
Use a 10 point scale.
Could it display the reply to the feedback to each department when they go on the app?
Should employees be able to make accounts?
Could you send individual employee feedback?






