Surveys with broad, over-arching questions such as “Are you satisfied with the company” have the potential to reveal an unhappy employee, but more often than not will invite people to respond with what you want to hear.

Be careful not to ask ‘leading questions’. If you put words into your teams mouths, they will likely agree out of habit. For example ‘Don’t you love the car parking for staff’ is leading ‘How I feel about staff car parking’ would be more worthwhile.

Addressing specific topics with targeted questions, is a great way to evoke deeper thought on a subject and gives more potential for an honest answer.
The frequency of employee surveys is very important.  Having only one survey a year can leave employees feeling like they are participating in a formality, and that their feedback will go unheard. It is likely issues that were pertinent a month or more ago would have been forgotten by this time as well.

Finding a good balance between survey length and frequency can also make filling it out feel like less of a chore and help increase the quality of the feedback.

Follow Through...

Employees will stop giving feedback if they think it is a futile process. Follow-through is far more important than the approach used to get the feedback in the first place. Thank employees for their feedback, share decisions that were made (even if you went a different direction than was suggested), and be sure to explain the "why" behind those decisions. - Amy Douglas, Spark Coaching, LLC 


Give Employees Control Of The Survey

Ask employees to provide feedback through a survey the employees create, write and gain HR approval to send. Trust them to own a process. The company, to some degree, is in their hands. Let them take ownership of the questions asked. Give them guidelines and parameters of confidentiality. The results? You'll see. - John M. O'Connor, Career Pro Inc. 

Use a 10 point scale.

Have a Blend of Open and Close-Ended Questions
When building surveys, questionnaires, or other forms, it is important to have a mix of questions.

Close-ended questions will allow your team to gather specific information that is easily reportable. Close-ended questions make surveys quick for respondents so that it does not eat up much of their work time. The downside is that they might not be telling the full story of your employees’ experience and respondents can’t express themselves freely.

Open-ended questions allow leaders to get a more in-depth look at what employees are thinking:

Pulse Surveys
Extensive annual surveys play a part in gathering employee feedback — but they are not the most effective way to implement needed changes as they arise.

Pulse surveys are a relatively new approach to gathering feedback. These are shorter surveys distributed more frequently.

Typically, pulse surveys have 5-10 questions asking about motivations, ability to handle the workload, and happiness with the company. Because these surveys are filled out more regularly, leadership can see what the current, real-time employee sentiment is and what changes need to be implemented to improve happiness.
